---
aip: 9999
title: Aurora Block Hashchain
description: Introduction of an additional block field for Aurora blockchain cryptographic verification.
author: Michael Birch (@birchmd), Leandro Casuso Montero (@Casuso)
discussions-to: https://hackmd.io/@birchmd/rJXGBMnoj
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category (*only required for Standards Track): Aurora-Engine
created: <date created on, in ISO 8601 (yyyy-mm-dd) format>
---

## Abstract

Blocks generated in Aurora network are virtual blocks compatible to Ethereum that are derived from NEAR blocks. This API is a formal specification for a new Aurora block field: `block hashchain`. Block hashchain is in the form of a hash, constructed from Aurora block transactions, block height and previous block hashchain, and it will serve for Aurora blockchain cryptographic verification.

## Motivation

As of today, Aurora blocks are populated with a “virtual” hash that has nothing to do with the contents of the block (transactions or state changes). The reason for this is because of coupling with the EVM opcode that can get block hash from height and the fact that we do not want to keep a history of blocks in the Engine contract itself.

Even if we cannot change the “official” blockhash of the Aurora blocks, we can still introduce an additional field that allows cryptographic verification that the data is not tampered with. To avoid confusion with the exiting blockhash field, we will call this new field the “block hashchain".

The goal of the block hashchain is to enable someone running a non-archival NEAR node to verify Aurora data is not tampered with, while minimizing the on-chain overhead.

## Specification

### Genesis Hashchain

Aurora genesis block `G` is the block with the transaction where `aurora` account was created. For the Refiner this would be the genesis hashchain and we will consider the block hashchain of blocks before `G` as zero (`0x00`). 

For the Engine, at some block height `H` we seed the process with a genesis hashchain and a precomputed hashchain for the block at height `H - 1` using the Refiner (see the note below). The genesis hashchain will be stored in the Aurora Engine state permanently as a constant (this allows anyone with a non-archival node to view the genesis hashchain because it is always present in the engine state).

We will compute the hashchain for the block at height `H - 1` off-chain using the Refiner and push the value to the Engine as part of the upgrade that includes this functionality. The precomputed hashchain will follow the scheme outlined below starting with `G`.

### Computation

All calls to mutable functions in the Aurora Engine (i.e. the same functions that the Refiner includes in Aurora blocks) will contribute to a “transactions hash” in the following way:

- the “intrinsic transaction hash” will be `hash(method_name || hash(input_bytes) || hash(output_bytes))`, where `||` means bytes-concatenation;
- the “transactions hash” will be updated as `txs_hash = hash(txs_hash || intrinsic_tx_hash)`, where the initial value of txs_hash is `0x00` if there have not yet been any transactions in this block.

When there is a change in block height (the Engine will know this has happened by keeping the last seen height in its state), it will compute the overall block hashchain for the previous block as follows:

```block_hashchain = hash(previous_block_hashchain || block_height.to_le_bytes() || txs_hash)```

For example, the hashchain for the block at height `H` will be

```block_hashchain_H = hash(precomputed_hashchain || H.to_le_bytes() || txs_hash_H)```

and the hashchain for the following block will be

```block_hashchain_H_plus_1 = hash(block_hashchain_H || (H + 1).to_le_bytes() || txs_hash_H_plus_1)```

### Skip blocks

It could be that not every NEAR block contains an Aurora transaction, or indeed it could be that a NEAR block skipped some height; either way we want to have an Aurora block hashchain for every height (because the refiner produces blocks at all heights). So if the Engine detects a height change of more than one then it will need to compute the intermediate block hashchain before proceeding. For example, if consecutive NEAR blocks had heights `H'`, `H' + 2` then the following sequence of hashchains should be produced:

```
block_hashchain_H_prime          = hash(block_hashchain_H_prime_minus_one || (H').to_le_bytes() || txs_hash_H_prime)
block_hashchain_H_prime_plus_one = hash(block_hashchain_H_prime || (H' + 1).to_le_bytes() || 0x00)
block_hashchain_H_prime_plus_two = hash(block_hashchain_H_prime_plus_one || (H' + 2).to_le_bytes() || txs_hash_H_prime_plus_two)
```

### Optional extension

Depending on the viability of computing the EVM logs bloom filter in the engine itself (need to figure out how much gas that would cost), then the block hashchain should include that as well.

```block_hashchain = hash(previous_block_hashchain || block_height.to_le_bytes() || txs_hash || logs_bloom)```

### Cryptographic Verification

The engine state will always contain the genesis hashchain as well as the hashchain of the last completed block. To verify a given Aurora stream is correct using a non-archival NEAR node do the following:

1. Check the genesis hashchain in the Engine (obtained via a view call to the NEAR node) matches the hashchain in block `G`.
2. Using the data in the stream, follow the scheme above to compute the hashchain for the block at some recent height and check that hashchain matches the value in the Engine state (obtained via a view call again).

If the two values match, then the data must match what happened on-chain. This is called “range verification” because it verifies a whole range of blocks by checking only the endpoint hashchains. The reason this works is because the hashchain includes all the transaction data and block heights in between, thus any change to the local copy of the data would produce an incorrect final hash.

## Rationale

<!-- TODO: Fill following section -->

The rationale fleshes out the specification by describing what motivated the design and why particular design decisions were made. It should describe alternate designs that were considered and related work, e.g. how the feature is supported in other languages.

## Backwards Compatibility

As this is an addition of a new field to the blocks there should not be any issues regarding backwards compatibility. Tools, indexers or consumers of Aurora blocks could ignore the field and continue to work as before or add the new field to have updated information.

## Test Cases

<!-- TODO: Fill following section -->
<!-- Maybe we can add the following test:
Include as part of the assets the Aurora genesis block 'G' and the next block 'N'.
Add here the result of the txs_hash of 'G' and the hashchain of 'G'.
Add then the result of the txs_hash of 'N' and the hashchain of 'N' using all the info.-->

Test cases for an implementation are mandatory for AIPs that are affecting consensus changes. If the test suite is too large to reasonably be included inline, then consider adding it as one or more files in `../assets/aip-####/`.

## Security Considerations

<!-- TODO: Fill following section -->

<!-- TODO: Fill following section -->

All AIPs must contain a section that discusses the security implications/considerations relevant to the proposed change. Include information that might be important for security discussions, surfaces risks and can be used throughout the life cycle of the proposal. E.g. include security-relevant design decisions, concerns, important discussions, implementation-specific guidance and pitfalls, an outline of threats and risks and how they are being addressed. AIP submissions missing the "Security Considerations" section will be rejected. An AIP cannot proceed to status "Final" without a Security Considerations discussion deemed sufficient by the reviewers.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
